Pay Calculator Program
	For this assignment I was tasked to develop a Java program to quickly calculate an employee’s weekly gross and net pay.  I began my work on this assignment by reading some information on how to begin a project in Java.  In a previous assignment I created a simple program that would output “My name is Travis”.  The previous assignment gave me a good starting point on how to create a package, class, and how to get my code into a source file to use with Java.  
	This assignment I had to first import the java.util package.  Java.util package contains different frameworks that can be used.  For this assignment I imported java.util so I could use the Scanner tool.  The scanner class is used to get input from the user in the program.  In this assignment I needed scanner to get input from the user which was employee name, hours worked and rate of pay.
	After importing my package, I proceeded to begin my main class.  The main class is the entry point of the application.  This is where the application begins to work.  I first initiated the Scanner tool with keyboard as a name, and system.in as the argument which is to read the input from the user.  I followed that with imitating all of my variables.  Java is statically typed so I had to let the complier know what type each of my variables will be.  The only string, I would use was employee and the rest of my variables were initially “doubles”.  Doubles are decimal floating-point numbers, which I wanted to be able to calculate percentages of deductions later in my program.  
	I then proceeded to user System.out.prinln which prints strings(words) to the console.  I printed the prompt for the user to enter the employee’s information.  I then used the Scanner methods for the scanner to read the input from the user.  The scanner needed to be told what I wanted it to read from the user and I needed to be specific to the type I wanted it to read and the order I wanted it to read the input.  This was used to set variables for later use in my program for calculations.
	To begin my calculations, I used conditional statements such as if and else which decides on what to do depending on the input or output.  The hours worked and overtime hours calculated a different gross pay.  The conditional statements helped calculate the extra pay the employee would receive for hours over 40 hours worked.  
	I then needed to set the rates of each deduction by name for later use.  The percentages I was given were converted to decimal to make it easier to calculate later with the gross pay deduction numbers.  With each deduction I named each a variable name for later use.  After entering all of my variables for my calculations, I proceeded to get the output I wanted from the system based on the input and calculations done.  The output is done using System.out.println() with the arguments in parentheses.
	During the process of inputting what I wanted the system to output, I wanted to make sure the output presented itself with specific decimal places.  To do this before the output is given, I needed to use the string formatting feature.  Using the string formatting feature, I set my rate of pay, gross pay, total deductions and net pay to out put to two decimal places.  This gave me the correct output I was looking for when money was involved.  
	I enjoyed this assignment and it helped me learn more about some basic Java features.  Being able to present a program using the features I have read about was a great feeling.  Below I have screenshots of my written program and the output of the hypothetical employees that I was given for this assignment.
